.TH FSCULL 1 2014-10-24 FASRC " "


.SH NAME

fscull \- distributed filesystem data retention policy enforcement


.SH SYNOPSIS

.B fscull
.BR \-\-data\-root " PATH"
.BR \-\-trash\-root " PATH"
.BR \-\-retention\-window " SECONDS"
...


.SH DESCRIPTION

.P
fscull walks a filesystem and moves files older than a specified age to a trash bin.
It's a distributed application using MPI (really just a wrapper around rename(2), which is then used as the map in fsmr mapreduce).
It's meant to be deployed on HPC storage such as Lustre, where it can use 100s of processes to scan and move 100s of millions of files on a scale of hours.


.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-data\-root " PATH"
The top-level directory to recursively cull.

.TP
.BR \-t ", " \-\-trash\-root " PATH"
The trash bin directory, where purged files go.
Currently, this must already exist, and it must be writable.

.TP
.BR \-w ", " \-\-retention\-window " SECONDS"
The retention window in seconds.
Files with mtime older than this window are culled.

.TP
.BR \-e ", " \-\-exempt\-path " PATH"
A path that's exempt from culling.
This should be a directory, though it's not implemented as that yet.
May be used multiple times, to exempt several directories.

.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-pretend
Don't actually modify the filesystem, just print out what would be done.

.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Increase the verbosity.
By default, only same basic operating parameters are printed.
Increasing the verbosity by one adds a message for each file culled.
Increasing again adds a message for each file not culled.
Increasing again adds all details, for debugging.

.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print a short synopsis.


.SH REQUIREMENTS

.P
fsmr -- https://github.com/jabrcx/fsmr


.SH BUGS/TODO

.P
n/a


.SH EXAMPLES

To do a dry-run and print out whether each file will be culled or not under a 90-day retention policy:

.P
mpirun [MPI_OPTIONS]
.B fscull -vv
\(rs
.RS
.RE
.B "    "--data-root
/PATH/TO/THE/DATA/DIRECTORY \(rs
.RS
.RE
.B "    "--trash-root
/PATH/TO/THE/TRASH/DIRECTORY \(rs
.RS
.RE
.B "    "--retention-window
$(( 60 * 60 * 24 * 90)) \(rs
.RS
.RE
.B "    "--pretend

To run it for real, remove
.B --pretend.
You may also want to remove one
.B -v,
to only print out files which are culled.


.SH AUTHOR
.P
Copyright (c) 2014, Harvard FAS Research Computing
.RS
.RE
All rights reserved.
